HOWTO Setup OVMS in a Tesla Roadster

1. PREREQUISITES

You'll need an OVMS hardware module and a Tesla Roadster. The module will need to have the
firmware installed (a seperate topic). You'll also need a SIM card and active account with
a cellular provider. We suggest you activate the SIM card using a normal mobile phone
before you install it in the car.

If you want to use an App (rather than SMS) to control the car, you'll also need an account
on an OVMS server. You can use the public server at openvehicles.com, or any other
compatible server.

2. CAR MODULE INSTALLATION

The module plugs in to the car diagnostics port. The port is found in the passenger footwell
of the car. You can see a picture of this connector on the github site at:

  https://github.com/markwj/Open-Vehicle-Monitoring-System/blob/master/vehicle/Car%20Module/can_connector.jpg

You will need to run a GSM antenna from somewhere high-up on the car to the car module. If
you are putting this on the front windscreen, you can route the cable through the area under
the fuse box, and up. You can leave the antenna low down in the passenger footwell, but
cellular reception will be poor, so we recommend you put it as high up as possible.

Plug the GSM antenna into the module, and the module into the car diagnostics port. It will
power on automatically and connect to the GSM network.

3. REGISTER YOUR PHONE

Using your main cellular telephone, create an address book entry for your car OVMS module.
Then, send an SMS to the car, as follows:

  REGISTER OVMS

(note that OVMS is the default car password)

If all is well, within a few seconds the car will SMS you back with:

  Your phone has been registered as the owner.

At this point, the telephone number of your phone has been registered and remembered
by the car module. You don't need the password to SMS the car any more, as the car
will use callerid to recognise you.

4. CHANGE THE DEFAULT PASSWORD

Using the cellular telephone that you registered to the car in the last step,
you should now change the default OVMS password in the car. This password is
known as the "user password".

Send an SMS to the car, as follows:

  PASS MYNEWPASSWORD

(obviously replacing MYNEWPASSWORD with the secret password of your choice)

We recommend you keep it between 4 and 22 characters, and upper-case only.

If all is well, within a few seconds the car will SMS you back with:

  Your password has been changed.

At this point, you have SMS control of the car. You only need to proceed with
GPRS network setup if you want to use a cellphone App to control the car.

5. OPTIONAL: DEFINE THE OVMS NETWORK CONNECTION

Usin the cellular telephone that you registered to the car in the previous
steps, you need to set the GPRS and OVMS parameters in the car. You do this
by sending an SMS to the car:

  PARAMS K SMS,IP 202.52.42.80 imobile.three.com.hk - - DEMO NETPASS

If all is well, within a few seconds the car will SMS you back with:

  System parameters have been set.

The parameters are listed one-by-one, seperated by spaces, after the
PARAMS command. Let's go through them:

  a) "K". This is used to specify "K" for Kilometers or "M" for miles, and
     is used to tell the car what you prefer to work in.

  b) "SMS,IP". This is a comma-seperated list of notification mechanisms
     you want the car to use. "SMS" would be just SMS to registed phone,
     "IP" would be just PUSH notifications to your cellular App via the
     OVMS server, and "SMS,IP" would be both.

  c) "202.52.42.80". This is the IP address of the OVMS server you have
     chosen to use. This example is the public openvehicles.com server,
     and you can use this or any other you choose.

  d) "imobile.three.com.hk","-","-". This is the APN, username and
     password for the cellular network. Use "-" if any field is empty.
     You will need to check with your cellular provider to find the
     correct values for this, and please double-check. Problems here
     are the single biggest cause of issues.

  e) "DEMO". This is the unique vehicleid that identifies your vehicle
     to the OVMS server.

  f) "NETPASS". This is the network password for your vehicle. It should
     be different than the user password, and we recommend you use
     between 4 and 22 characters.

You will also need to ensure that your car vehicleid and network password
are pre-registered on the OVMS server you have chosen. For openvehicles.com,
the procedure is:

  g) With a web browser, go to www.openvehicles.com and register for a
     user account on the site. You can use any username and password you
     want (it doesn't have to be the same as the vehicleid and network
     password).

  h) Contact the www.openvehicles.com adminstrators (info@openvehicles.com)
     letting them know:
       (i) the username you chose
       (ii) your vehicleid
       (iii) your network password
     The administrators will then authorise your account and create the
     appropriate permissions for your vehicle to use the OVMS server.

6. ENJOY

Any questions/comments, please let us know.

Mark Webb-Johnson
November 2011
